documentation/docs/index.md, before:

# GroupLoop

A modular system for real-time interaction with a swarm of physical devices over WebSockets. Devices stream sensor data (accelerometer and beacon RSSI) and accept control commands (vibration motor and RGB LEDs). The stack includes a WebSocket server, web clients, simulators/emulators for development, and a CDN for shared libraries — all containerized via Docker.

## Goals

- Enable rapid prototyping and visualization of many devices concurrently
- Provide consistent device data models and control APIs across apps
- Support development without hardware via simulation and emulation
- Share common client libraries through a CDN for reuse across demos

## Components

- `grouploop-firmware`: Firmware for the device hardware. Publishes accelerometer values and beacon RSSI via WebSocket; receives motor/LED commands.
- `socket-server`: WebSocket backend. Manages device/client connections and message routing.
- `socket-client`: Reference web UI to observe device state and send commands.
- `socket-simulator`: Simulates a swarm of devices (message shape compatible with real devices) for load and UX testing.
- `device-emulator`: Mobile-friendly emulator for creating virtual devices without hardware.
- `cdn-server`: Serves shared JS libraries and firmware files (e.g., `HitloopDevice.js`, `HitloopDeviceManager.js`, `p5.min.js`).
- `documentation`: MkDocs site with architecture and how-tos.

## High-level architecture

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph Clients
    C1["socket-client (web UI)"]
    C2["socket-demo (p5 scenes)"]
    C3["custom apps"]
  end

  subgraph Sources
    D1["Physical devices\n(grouploop-firmware)"]
    S1["socket-simulator"]
    E1["device-emulator"]
  end

  WS["socket-server\n(WebSocket)"]
  CDN["cdn-server\n(static JS/firmware)"]

  D1 -- WS --> WS
  S1 -- WS --> WS
  E1 -- WS --> WS

  WS -- WS --> C1
  WS -- WS --> C2
  WS -- WS --> C3

  CDN -- HTTP --> C1
  CDN -- HTTP --> C2
  CDN -- HTTP --> C3
```

## Data model and message flow

- Devices (real/sim/emulated) open a WebSocket to the server and stream frames with accelerometer (ax, ay, az) and beacon RSSI (dNW, dNE, dSW, dSE) plus metadata (id, color, motor state).
- Clients subscribe over WebSocket and render device state. Control commands (e.g., vibrate, LED color) are sent back over the same socket, routed to targets by the server.
- Shared parsing and device abstractions live in CDN-delivered libraries `HitloopDevice.js` and `HitloopDeviceManager.js` used across apps like `socket-client` and `socket-demo`.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant Dev as Device/Simulator/Emulator
  participant WS as socket-server
  participant UI as Client App

  Dev->>WS: connect()
  loop stream
    Dev->>WS: sensorFrame { id, ax, ay, az, dNW, dNE, dSW, dSE }
    WS-->>UI: broadcast/update frame
  end
  UI->>WS: command { id, motor:on, led:[r,g,b] }
  WS-->>Dev: route command
```

## Runtime and environment

Container orchestration is defined in `docker-compose.yml`.

- WebSocket default URL: `WS_DEFAULT_URL` (default `ws://feib.nl:5003`)
- CDN base URL: `CDN_BASE_URL` (default `http://cdn.hitloop.feib.nl`)
- Services (ports):
  - `socket` (server): 5003→5000
  - `client` (UI): 5004→5000
  - `cdn_server` (CDN): 5008→5000
  - `simulator` (UI): 5005→5000
  - `device_emulator` (UI): 5007→5000
  - `docs` (MkDocs): 5006→5000

Client apps read `WS_DEFAULT_URL` and `CDN_BASE_URL` and include shared libraries from the CDN, e.g. in `socket-demo/index.html`:

```html
<script src="http://cdn.hitloop.feib.nl/js/p5.min.js"></script>
<script src="http://cdn.hitloop.feib.nl/js/p5.sound.min.js"></script>
<script src="http://cdn.hitloop.feib.nl/js/HitloopDevice.js"></script>
<script src="http://cdn.hitloop.feib.nl/js/HitloopDeviceManager.js"></script>
```

## Getting started

1. Install Docker and Docker Compose.
2. From the repo root, start the stack:
   - `docker compose up --build`
3. Open the UIs:
   - Docs: `http://localhost:5006`
   - Client UI: `http://localhost:5004`
   - Simulator: `http://localhost:5005`
   - Emulator: `http://localhost:5007`
   - CDN: `http://localhost:5008`

## Component references

- Hardware and firmware: `docs/hardware/`
- Socket demo (p5 scenes): `docs/socket-demo/`
- Server details: `socket-server/README.md`

## For contributors and AI agents

- Prefer using the CDN-hosted device libraries to keep parsing and models consistent across apps.
- Keep message schema stable: ids are hex strings; sensor values are 0–255. Add fields behind feature flags to maintain compatibility.
- When adding a new app, parameterize WebSocket URL and CDN base URL via env vars.

Commit message:

Update documentation and enhance WebSocket server functionality: add command protocol overview and sensor data protocol details in documentation, implement command handling and device classification in WebSocket server, and enable streaming of sensor data based on client commands.

documentation/docs/index.md, after:

# GroupLoop

A modular system for real-time interaction with a swarm of physical devices over WebSockets. Devices stream sensor data (accelerometer and beacon RSSI) and accept control commands (vibration motor and RGB LEDs). The stack includes a WebSocket server, web clients, simulators/emulators for development, and a CDN for shared libraries — all containerized via Docker.

## Command protocol (overview)

All commands and device responses are ASCII-hex, newline-terminated. Multi-byte values are big-endian.

- L\n: List device IDs (server replies with IDs, one per line)
- I\n: Devices reply with their 2-byte ID (4 hex chars)
- C<id><RR><GG><BB>\n: Set color on device
- M<id><SS><TT>\n: Motor strength and duration (1 byte each)
- R<id>\n: One-shot sensor sample from device
- R<id><FF>\n: Stream sensors at FF Hz; FF=00 stops streaming

See Sensor Data Protocol for the payload format.

## Goals

- Enable rapid prototyping and visualization of many devices concurrently
- Provide consistent device data models and control APIs across apps
- Support development without hardware via simulation and emulation
- Share common client libraries through a CDN for reuse across demos

## Components

- `grouploop-firmware`: Firmware for the device hardware. Publishes accelerometer values and beacon RSSI via WebSocket; receives motor/LED commands.
- `socket-server`: WebSocket backend. Manages device/client connections and message routing.
- `socket-client`: Reference web UI to observe device state and send commands.
- `socket-simulator`: Simulates a swarm of devices (message shape compatible with real devices) for load and UX testing.
- `device-emulator`: Mobile-friendly emulator for creating virtual devices without hardware.
- `cdn-server`: Serves shared JS libraries and firmware files (e.g., `HitloopDevice.js`, `HitloopDeviceManager.js`, `p5.min.js`).
- `documentation`: MkDocs site with architecture and how-tos.

## High-level architecture

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph Clients
    C1["socket-client (web UI)"]
    C2["socket-demo (p5 scenes)"]
    C3["custom apps"]
  end

  subgraph Sources
    D1["Physical devices\n(grouploop-firmware)"]
    S1["socket-simulator"]
    E1["device-emulator"]
  end

  WS["socket-server\n(WebSocket)"]
  CDN["cdn-server\n(static JS/firmware)"]

  D1 -- WS --> WS
  S1 -- WS --> WS
  E1 -- WS --> WS

  WS -- WS --> C1
  WS -- WS --> C2
  WS -- WS --> C3

  CDN -- HTTP --> C1
  CDN -- HTTP --> C2
  CDN -- HTTP --> C3
```

## Data model and message flow

- Devices (real/sim/emulated) open a WebSocket to the server and stream frames with accelerometer (ax, ay, az) and beacon RSSI (dNW, dNE, dSW, dSE) plus metadata (id, color, motor state).
- Clients subscribe over WebSocket and render device state. Control commands (e.g., vibrate, LED color) are sent back over the same socket, routed to targets by the server.
- Shared parsing and device abstractions live in CDN-delivered libraries `HitloopDevice.js` and `HitloopDeviceManager.js` used across apps like `socket-client` and `socket-demo`.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant Dev as Device/Simulator/Emulator
  participant WS as socket-server
  participant UI as Client App

  Dev->>WS: connect()
  loop stream
    Dev->>WS: sensorFrame { id, ax, ay, az, dNW, dNE, dSW, dSE }
    WS-->>UI: broadcast/update frame
  end
  UI->>WS: command { id, motor:on, led:[r,g,b] }
  WS-->>Dev: route command
```

## Runtime and environment

Container orchestration is defined in `docker-compose.yml`.

- WebSocket default URL: `WS_DEFAULT_URL` (default `ws://feib.nl:5003`)
- CDN base URL: `CDN_BASE_URL` (default `http://cdn.hitloop.feib.nl`)
- Services (ports):
  - `socket` (server): 5003→5000
  - `client` (UI): 5004→5000
  - `cdn_server` (CDN): 5008→5000
  - `simulator` (UI): 5005→5000
  - `device_emulator` (UI): 5007→5000
  - `docs` (MkDocs): 5006→5000

Client apps read `WS_DEFAULT_URL` and `CDN_BASE_URL` and include shared libraries from the CDN, e.g. in `socket-demo/index.html`:

```html
<script src="http://cdn.hitloop.feib.nl/js/p5.min.js"></script>
<script src="http://cdn.hitloop.feib.nl/js/p5.sound.min.js"></script>
<script src="http://cdn.hitloop.feib.nl/js/HitloopDevice.js"></script>
<script src="http://cdn.hitloop.feib.nl/js/HitloopDeviceManager.js"></script>
```

## Getting started

1. Install Docker and Docker Compose.
2. From the repo root, start the stack:
   - `docker compose up --build`
3. Open the UIs:
   - Docs: `http://localhost:5006`
   - Client UI: `http://localhost:5004`
   - Simulator: `http://localhost:5005`
   - Emulator: `http://localhost:5007`
   - CDN: `http://localhost:5008`

## Component references

- Hardware and firmware: `docs/hardware/`
- Socket demo (p5 scenes): `docs/socket-demo/`
- Server details: `socket-server/README.md`

## For contributors and AI agents

- Prefer using the CDN-hosted device libraries to keep parsing and models consistent across apps.
- Keep message schema stable: ids are hex strings; sensor values are 0–255. Add fields behind feature flags to maintain compatibility.
- When adding a new app, parameterize WebSocket URL and CDN base URL via env vars.
